---
layout: post
title: "never settle on understanding"
---

You are a developer. Do you really understand the software stack you arw using ? What distinguish expert from advanced programmer is *deep understanding*. That feeling you *exactly* know the subject, not the generic buzzwords. Couple of buzzwords developers often ise without deep understanding:

1. "Premature optimization is the root of the evil". Frankly, it was truth 30 years ago, not today. Writing webapp without modern and fast mvvm architecture or even ajax will result in "big ball of mud" without the chance of optimization in the future without rewriting all of the stack. 
Architecture from ground up must support performance, from day one! It's just tiny details like micro loops optimizations you can focus on later. Or replacing libjpeg with libjpeg-turbo.

2. Another myth: *scrum is agile*. Not true at all. xp is agile. tdd is agile. Agile manifesto is agile - it says "indywiduals and interactions over tools". 
Now look at your jira backlog, epics, user stories, scrum cards, and other pencils, papers, stickers for the answer. i have seen many finished spronts with no product made at all! but the number of artifacts created by the process was overwlming. 
Agile manifesto says "working software over comprehensive documentation" look at your over-produced backlog with hard-written acceptance criteria, feedback loop reports and lots of overhead. Scrum is scrum. 
The truth is - Agile is the way of thinking - adapt to changes, be ready in software architecture for changes and dont make barriers.  
If your team uses scrum to "hide" themselves into the programming cave it will not work.

3. Abstraction is good?
Some of us love to know the smallest details of complete stack of software we're using, but how many of todays programmers understand even the simplest webbrowser displaing hello world webpage from the remote webserver? just check the 1 hour long talk on youtube "how webbrowser works". Yeah, deep understanding is the art of curiosity. Today the kids prefer to hide between the laters isolation instead. Abstraction is  always bad because it moves you away from the root, from the details. 


