---
title: Arctic vault - say hello!
date: 2020-02-02 00:00:00 Z
layout: post
comments: true
---

If you read this, Github probably already did "it".

Github is going to archive all, world-wide public github repositories in a secret "Vault" located somewhere in Arctic mountain. Today. Including this page. 

The process begins in 2 hours, on 2/02/2020. [More info](https://archiveprogram.github.com)

It seems, this blog is going to be archived to, and will be stored underground for about 1000 years. 
Well, it's great oportunity to write, something. Something that lasts. 

## What is it like to live in 2020?

I think, I'm grateful to be living in 2020. 

* Living in 2020 is understanding much more than ever, but living in social "bubbles".
* Living in 2020 is to buy everything you'd really imagine, having free shipping worlwide.
* Living in 2020 is having private chauffeur available everywhere (we used to call it "Uber").
* Living in 2020 is to have supercomputer with 20 sensors, just in your pocket(smartphone).
* Sadly, living in 2020 is to forget about God, and avoiding taking responsibility.
* Sadly, living in 2020 is giving privacy for stupid pictures.


## Being grateful

I'd like to thank all previous ~ 10,000 generations of people, including my nearest family, to work on foundation for everything we have today. 

I'm grateful for: 
* my wonderful family, wife, doughter 
* oportunity to live in a world of programming, and fantastic work experience
* piece of mind, piece of soul

See you in 1000 years!

