---
layout: post
title: Obieranie cebuli ...
---

Zaczynasz karierę programisty od fascynacji obiektowością i bazamy danych. W trakcie swojej kariery będziesz obcował z tymi dwiema technologiami do znudzenia - raz warstwę wyżej (etap fascynacji Active Record, ORM), następnie coraz niżej i niżej wgłąb blachy (NoSQL, powrót do flat files, Redis, Cassandra). Tym co pozwoli Ci rozwinąć skrzydła jest przywiązanie do detali i próba ciągłego zrozumiania jak dana technologia działa. Np po roku pracy z SQL zaczynasz widzieć problemy, ograniczenia związane JOIN-ami. Po dwóch latach powinieneś wiedzieć już dlaczego MyISAM jest gorszy od InnoDB. Po 3 latach zauważasz że InnoDB nie da się zdefragmentować bez reimportu całej bazy. 

Ciekawość "jak to działa" sprawia że dokładnie rozumiesz narzędzie którym się posługujesz. Warstwa po warstwie niczym odcinanie cebuli poznajesz detale implementacji.

1. "Premature optimization is the root of the evil". Frankly, it was truth 30 years ago, not today. Writing webapp without modern and fast mvvm architecture or even ajax will result in "big ball of mud" without the chance of optimization in the future without rewriting all of the stack. 
Architecture from ground up must support performance, from day one! It's just tiny details like micro loops optimizations you can focus on later. Or replacing libjpeg with libjpeg-turbo.

2. Another myth: *scrum is agile*. Not true at all. xp is agile. tdd is agile. Agile manifesto is agile - it says "indywiduals and interactions over tools". 
Now look at your jira backlog, epics, user stories, scrum cards, and other pencils, papers, stickers for the answer. i have seen many finished sprints with no product made at all! But the number of artifacts created by the process was overwhelming. 
Agile manifesto says "working software over comprehensive documentation". Now look at your over-produced backlog with hard-written acceptance criteria, feedback loop reports and lots of overhead. Scrum is scrum. 
The truth is - Agile is the way of thinking - adapt to changes, be ready in software architecture for changes and dont make artifical barriers to change it often.  
If your team uses scrum to "hedge" against changes and prefer jira communication over direct cooperation - it will be not agile. 


3. Abstraction is good?
Some of us love to know the smallest details of complete stack of software we're using, but how many of todays programmers understand even the simplest webbrowser displaing hello world webpage from the remote webserver? just check the 1 hour long talk on youtube "how webbrowser works". Yeah, deep understanding is the art of curiosity. Today the kids prefer to hide between the layers of isolation instead. Abstraction is  always a tax you pay for more generic code. But it very often moves you away from the origin, from the details. 

